Hello everybody and welcome.
In this lecture I'd like to have a look at appending versus duplication and see about the implications
when you're building up a scene made of multiple models.
Which one you should go for.
And of course there's always going to be more than one way.
So basically we have two main options.
We can either have separate files or everything in one blend file.
We don't really want to mix up the two concepts in this case.
So we're gonna pick one or the other.
And of course if you decide to pick a different one to what I'm doing in the course that's absolutely
fine.
Well one of my big questions is where are the materials stored.
So at the moment we haven't even touched textures.
However our models this time round will eventually get textures on them.
But the question is how are those textures applied.
In this case they're going to be very simply applied rather than being UV mapped to our model.
We'll talk about that type of mapping later on in the course.
But for the moment we just want our models to look a little bit better.
So one of the big questions is where are material stored my thought on this is to have it in the final
file so when we start assembling everything together we have everything all in the final file.
Now that's a good way of looking at it because whether or not you've got your separate files or everything
in one blend file that will be your final file when you bring it all together whether that's in an individual
file or those separate objects.
So one of the big questions here.
Let's hop on over into blender. Okay.
So here we go we're over in the chess piece base it's coming together relatively well and I think the
base is pretty much complete and we just need to change it for every other model it's currently called
cylinder now slap on my wrists for leaving it as that but I'm just going to call it base for the moment.
There we go.
And the camera and lights I'm going to remove that from the scene altogether.
I'm not going to render out my stuff any more until we get to a final scene.
And I'd like to stick to modelling to begin with and then come back and texture them later on.
And I think that's looking pretty good.
The only other thing that I would say at this point is that the base is not low poly it's very much
high poly at the moment before we progressed any further is the subdivision surface modifier.
So we have the modifier over on the left and we can turn it off during rendering, we can turn it off
in the viewport, we can turn it off in edit mode on and off in that mode and this adjust cage to modify
a result if we go into edit mode we can see we can turn that on and off and also adjust the bounds the
original shape.
So it sucks a bit closer to this one.
And of course if we do turn it to low poly you see there's an immediate problem there that we've currently
adjusted our model as if it was a high poly model.
So with that in mind when we turn it off suddenly the model goes out of bounds and ends up being Well
if we look at that.
That's not how we want the piece looking.
It needs to be closer to that and we will need to do that before we either start duplicating this or appending
it into new scenes because if we just leave it as it is.
Well we've got a problem on our hands because we're going to have to undo and change a lot of things
in multiple models and we want to make sure that this base is right from the word go and I'm going to
do that now rather than leaving it and forgetting about it.
So I'm going to grab my base here and I'm going to delete the subdivision surface modifier.
I'm gonna go ahead and grab this edge loop here and bring it into the right place and I'm going to do
the same to this one but there needs to be brought in a lot.
And then this one as well.
Okay so a few tweaks later I'm going to lift that one up and scale it out slightly.
Yeah I'm happy with some of these changes bring that in.
There we go.
So I'm happy with everything now I think my base is now ready to do whatever I want to do with it.
So I got to make sure I save my work.
This is the base and then we've got to think about starting to create the other pieces that are based
upon this base.
And for that it's time for your challenge.
Okay.
It's time for your challenge consider how you're going to make your project, individual blend files?
That's one option we've discussed, all in one file?
That's another possibility.
Where will you store your multi-user material.
So if you've got a material for the white pieces and a material for the black pieces, How are you going  to make
sure that if you update one of those it's going to reflect across multiple objects?
Does it even matter at this point if you're going to assign them in the end file when you put everything
together?
These are questions that you will ask on a per project base all the time and there is no right or wrong
way.
And perhaps discovering a mistake if you've chosen one way or the other during this particular lecture
will be a great learning experience moving forward.
And then you've made these decisions whether it is a new file or within the same blender file create your
pawn piece and what I'd like you to do is go all the way to a full creation so take that base piece
duplicate it append it into a new blend file and then from there create the low poly pawn piece.
It doesn't have to be precise at this point there's some fine tuning that we're going to do over the
next couple of lectures as well.
And then finally I'd love to know why you decided to do it that way so please do share in the discussions
your methodology how you felt about the project and why you've done it in the way that you've done it
often explaining the process to other people helped solidify in your mind the process you're going to
do pause video now and give that a go
Hello everybody and welcome back.
Let's hop on over into blender and start making our pawn piece. Hello and welcome back over into blender.
So before we do anything else I do want to make sure that this is ready for duplication because what
I don't want to do is have to redo a lot of work on multiple pieces.
Now what I am going to do is I'm going to keep these as separate files because I wants to be able to
append them all in and practice that skill.
You could just duplicate this as a new object within your scene.
Ah that's the other thing I haven't done shade flat.
Okay.
Because I want this faceted look and now that I can see that it's flat.
I'm going to come in and make this just a little bit narrower as well save my work.
Brilliant.
So I have my chess piece base ready to go.
I'm gonna go file and save as.
And I'm gonna call it the pawn.
So P A W N there we go.
And chest piece base.
Okay.
So we've got the board the chess piece base so all of these things can be brought in later on into one
scene.
Right.
So we've got at the top here it's called pawn.
We know that that's there.
So it's now time to start going into edit mode and going to select my face at the top.
And once that face is selected whizz round to the side and just extrude up now I could extrude up scale
in extrude up scale out slightly or I could put some loop cuts in and then scaled that's up later on
I'm going to go all the way to the top here and I am going to loop cut this slightly lower down and
make it wider.
So there we go we've got the the basics going on there.
Now this top piece here I'm not going to try and extrude a sphere that's gonna be crazy but what I can
do is whizz round to the side bring up my tool shelf with the tool shelf open I'm going to click on
cursor and place it roughly in the right place and then go to my side bar over here and put the X and
Y coordinates at zero, I'm then going to add a new bit of mesh data UV sphere it's going to be huge
and I'm going to open up the operator panel because these segments and rings are important I'm gonna
make this eight and I'm going to make my rings probably eight as well.
The radius is currently one metre it's probably more like 10 centimeters so let's type in 10 C.M. and
press enter.
Okay.
It's gonna be smaller than that.
Let's try.
Oh blimey.
Yes of course its 2cm, almost one?
Okay.
That's close enough that we can now tweak it.
Now the reason of course I picked eight segments and I'm not going to move anything yet so I can still
tweak these things.
But why I've picked eight segments.
You'll notice it aligns with the rest of our objects which is gonna be really important.
So it looks like it is part of the same object four I think is a bit too low five or six.
I'm going to go for six and finally I'm gonna hold down shift whilst I click and move.
So I can adjust this accordingly.
Okay.
That looks pretty good.
I'm going to bring this edge down slightly I think I think I need to bring this up just a little bit
further so if I select the face on the top here.
If you leave the 3D cursor selected on and you click everywhere and move the 3D cursor you know you've
not turned selecting back on so let's turn on selection.
You can also use the W key for that and I'm going to extrude this up by a little on the Z axis, whizz
round to the side and just scale that in there we go.
Something along those lines I think.
Perfect so it's not a perfect join as it comes together here but we can sort that out shortly.
I'm going to hide my image at the back so I can have a good look around my model looking pretty
sweet.
We've also got these edges that have been defined as well that they're not important at the moment but
we might have to redefine them later on the reason why they're these and these and that one and that
one are all pink is because we used that information when extrudeing.
So it's something to bear in mind when you are extruding.
If you've already got an edge.
Go to the edge select here.
That's got a crease applied to it when you extrude it.
The new geometry will inherit that crease as well and obviously other options were applied to those
edges.
So I know we wouldn't need it here necessarily so it might be worthwhile turning that crease down although
if we're sticking with a low poly model it probably doesn't matter either way.
Okay so that is my pawn pretty much sorted ah naming and we need to make sure that the object itself
the name is a pawn and we've got the image it's fine.
I think we're done and dusted in it's the right size and scale in everything so we just save our file
and there we go.
Brilliant.
I'm happy with the results of mine.
Are you happy with how you also coming along really looking.
Please share your pawns over in the discussion and I'll see you all in the next lecture.